CASMCMS-8693: Document how to tell which BOS Session booted/rebooted … (#3916)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/boot_orchestration/Ascertain_Which_BOS_Session_Booted_A_Node.md

# Ascertain Which BOS Session Booted a Node

> This guide is split into a BOS Version 1 (V1) and BOS Version 2 (V2) section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide is split into BOS Version 1 (V1) and BOS Version 2 (V2) sections
```

because the procedures are different for the two different versions.

## BOS Version 1 (V1)

To determine which BOS Session booted or rebooted a node, query the node's

> kernel boot parameters. They contain a string 'bos_session_id' which indentifies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kernel boot parameters. They contain a string 'bos_session_id' which identifies
```

which BOS session booted or rebooted the node. Then, use this BOS Session ID
to describe the BOS Session, which identifies the BOS Session template used.

### Query the Node

From a management node (master or worker), ssh to the node in question.
(`ncn-mw#`) ssh <node's xname>
('<node>#') cat /proc/cmdline

Find the bos_session_id value in the cmdline string. This is the ID of the BOS
session that was used to boot the node.

Exit from the node.
('<node>#') exit

### Query BOS
Ask BOS to describe this session.
(`ncn-mw#`#) cray bos v1 session describe  <BOS session ID> --format json

> The templateName parameter is the BOS session template used to boot or reboot the node.

Reviewer: Why document this extra step?  The document is about determining the session, not the session template, and you don't do this in the V2 section.

Author: I _did_ describe the V2 session in the V2 section.

Author: I added the session template description output to make it more symmetric.

> # Ascertain Which BOS Session Booted a Node

Reviewer 2: It might be better to pick a simpler verb instead of "ascertain". Perhaps "determine"?

Author: Aack, simpletons. ;)  I'll change ascertain to determine in the file and the filename.

This guide is split into BOS Version 1 (V1) and BOS Version 2 (V2) sections
because the procedures are different for the two different versions.

## BOS Version 1 (V1)

To determine which BOS Session booted or rebooted a node, query the node's
kernel boot parameters. They contain a string 'bos_session_id' which identifies
which BOS session booted or rebooted the node. Then, use this BOS Session ID
to describe the BOS Session, which identifies the BOS Session template used.

### Query the Node

From a management node (master or worker), ssh to the node in question.

> (`ncn-mw#`) ssh <node's xname>

Author: Followed the conventions.

> ('<node>#') cat /proc/cmdline

Reviewer 2: There are many ways to do this, but one way to get just the BOS session ID would be:

```
ncn-m001:~ # ssh x1000c0s2b0n0 "cat /proc/cmdline" | awk -v RS=" " -F "=" '{if ($1 == "bos_session_id") { print $2; }}'
4b6744ee-837f-4f60-9051-897aed6c7623
```

Author: This is a better way to do what I was attempting to do. I will adopt this method.
